The book we're reading today is the vegetables we eat
Shakira O'Lair volunteers for the Reading Connection in Washington D.C.
Her assignment: get these three girls excited about reading, and vegetables.
Some seeds and vegetables grow in pods,
sometimes the pods are eaten too
Reading with enthusiasm is a great start
non-fiction books with interesting facts and bright vivid pictures
help kids get excited about science and other subjects they learn about in school.
What kind of vegetables do you see here?
I see, I see ... peppers, tomatoes and, ... corn
Turns out Shakira has got a good crowd.
She encourages their participation,
which is great for their comprehension skills.
Oh! I make it in the garden!
Do you guys have a garden?
Yes, right there ... Even two off there.
Yes, right there ... Even two off there. We have strawberries that's growing by now, we have pumpkins.'
Stephany Berman is the programme manager at the Reading Connection.
They are asking the child questions about what they are encountering,
term familiar words and helping the child relate the buck to their everyday experience.
There are eight groups of vegetables.
Always remember to read with expression,
not only because it makes reading exciting
but also because it provides a model of fluent reading.
It is good for us to eat vegetables.
They are nutritious and help keep our body strong and healthy
That's carrots, they keep our eyes ... strong
That's right!'
The vocabulary that's in picture books is
often different than the vocabulary that's used in conversation,
so it really helps to build vocabulary.'
Fruit, seed, stem, tuber.
Which one is this one?
A beet
A root !
After reading aloud together,
After reading aloud together, the kids participate in a hands-on activity about farming.
This is a great way to use real-life experiences
to reinforce what kids have just learned.
Hands-on activities connected to a book
are really important because they help a child
make a personal connection with the subject they are reading about.
And it builds up personal, personal knowledge,
that background knowledge that then helps them when they experience a topic in the future.
You see, I do one side, and then I do the other side
you see, you try it, OK?
Here you go. See ? Good job ! Look at that!
This activity gives kids a glimpe of life on a dairy farm.
It also explains how the process of making milk
starts with a cow and ends in our refrigirators.
You got it. Oh here you go ! Woooh!!
All right! Oh no !!! It's getting down on you.
Who's next?
Are you guys ready to pasteurize?
Did you get that milk in the bucket?
This is our milk from our cow.
Put it in there.
'You got more milk? Oh oh ... Tell me what I'm supposed to do? ...
Tell me what I'm supposed to do?
You hold this right here over this big fire
What is that?
It's ... It's pasteurizing, we're making milk
What we are doing when we are pasteririzing,
is we are heating it up to kill the germs in it.'
Oh! now look!
So we can sell it at the store!
Yes, our farm day has ended.
Even though the lesson about farms has ended for the kids at the Reading Connection,
you can bring this and other topics to life life at home
by sharing read alouds and other activities with your family.
For more tips on reading aloud, themed children's books
and hands-on activities visit: www.startwithabook.org, a project of Reading Rockets.